Sure! Here’s your text with only the alignment fixed (dialogue indented consistently and line
breaks standardized) — I didn’t change or remove any content:
CREON
Tell me briefly—not in some lengthy speech—
were you aware there was a proclamation
forbidding what you did?
ANTIGONE
I’d heard of it.
How could I not? It was public knowledge.
CREON
And yet you dared to break those very laws?
ANTIGONE
Yes. Zeus did not announce those laws to me. [450]
And Justice living with the gods below
sent no such laws for men. I did not think [510]
anything which you proclaimed strong enough
to let a mortal override the gods
and their unwritten and unchanging laws.
They’re not just for today or yesterday,
but exist forever, and no one knows
where they first appeared. So I did not mean
to let a fear of any human will
lead to my punishment among the gods.
I know all too well I’m going to die— [460]
how could I not?—it makes no difference [520]
what you decree. And if I have to die
before my time, well, I count that a gain.
When someone has to live the way I do,
surrounded by so many evil things,
how can she fail to find a benefit
in death? And so for me meeting this fate
won’t bring any pain. But if I’d allowed
my own mother’s dead son to just lie there,
an unburied corpse, then I’d feel distress.
What’s going on here does not hurt me at all. [530]
If you think what I’m doing now is stupid,
perhaps I’m being charged with foolishness [470]
by someone who’s a fool.CHORUS LEADER
It’s clear enough
the spirit in this girl is passionate—
her father was the same. She has no sense
of compromise in times of trouble.
CREON (to the Chorus Leader)
But you should know the most obdurate wills
are those most prone to break. The strongest iron
tempered in the fire to make it really hard—
that’s the kind you see most often shatter. [540]
I’m well aware the most tempestuous horses
are tamed by one small bit. Pride has no place
in anyone who is his neighbour’s slave.
This girl here was already very insolent [480]
in contravening laws we had proclaimed.
Here she again displays her proud contempt—
having done the act, she now boasts of it.
She laughs at what she’s done. Well, in this case,
if she gets her way and goes unpunished,
then she’s the man here, not me. No. She may be [550]
my sister’s child, closer to me by blood
than anyone belonging to my house
who worships Zeus Herkeios in my home,
but she’ll not escape my harshest punishment—
her sister, too, whom I accuse as well.(4)
She had an equal part in all their plans [490]
to do this burial. Go summon her here.
I saw her just now inside the palace,
her mind out of control, some kind of fit.
[Exit attendants into the palace to fetch Ismene.]
When people hatch their mischief in the dark [560]
their minds often convict them in advance,
betraying their treachery. How I despise
a person caught committing evil acts
who then desires to glorify the crime.
ANTIGONE
Take me and kill me—what more do you want?
CREON
Me? Nothing. With that I have everything.ANTIGONE
Then why delay? There’s nothing in your words
that I enjoy—may that always be the case! [500]
And what I say displeases you as much.
But where could I gain greater glory [570]
than setting my own brother in his grave?
All those here would confirm this pleases them
if their lips weren’t sealed by fear—being king,
which offers all sorts of various benefits,
means you can talk and act just as you wish.
CREON
In all of Thebes, you’re the only one
who looks at things that way.
ANTIGONE
They share my views,
but they keep their mouths shut just for you.
CREON
These views of yours—so different from the rest—
don’t they bring you any sense of shame? [580] [510]
ANTIGONE
No—there’s nothing shameful in honouring
my mother’s children.
CREON
You had a brother
killed fighting for the other side.
ANTIGONE
Yes—from the same mother and father, too.
CREON
Why then give tributes which insult his name?
ANTIGONE
But his dead corpse won’t back up what you say.
CREON
Yes, he will, if you give equal honours
to a wicked man.ANTIGONE
But the one who died
was not some slave—it was his own brother.
CREON
Who was destroying this land—the other one [590]
went to his death defending it.
ANTIGONE
That may be,
but Hades still desires equal rites for both.(5)
CREON
A good man does not wish what we give him [520]
to be the same an evil man receives.
ANTIGONE
Who knows? In the world below perhaps
such actions are no crime.
CREON
An enemy
can never be a friend, not even in death.
ANTIGONE
But my nature is to love. I cannot hate.
CREON
Then go down to the dead. If you must love,
love them. No woman’s going to govern me—
no, no—not while I’m still alive. [600]